AMDGPU: Introduce amdgpu triple arch (#206480)
llvm/llvm-project: llvm/docs/AMDGPUUsage.rst

Target Triples
--------------

Use the Clang option ``--target=<Architecture><SubArch>-<Vendor>-<OS>-<Environment>``
to specify the target triple.

> .. note::
>    Historically, the single top-level ``amdgcn`` architecture was used
>    for all devices and specific devices by the subtarget. It has been
>    replaced with the ``amdgpu`` architecture combined with a subarch
>    suffix. The legacy spelling is accepted for accepted for
>    compatibility.

Reviewer: This doesn't read great to me, still. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
.. note::
   Historically, the single top-level ``amdgcn`` architecture was used
   for all devices, with specific devices being identified using the subtarget. It has been
   replaced with the ``amdgpu`` architecture combined with a subarch
   suffix. The legacy spelling is accepted for
   compatibility.
```

Target Triples
--------------

Use the Clang option ``--target=<Architecture><SubArch>-<Vendor>-<OS>-<Environment>``
to specify the target triple. Historically, the single top-level
``amdgcn`` architecture was used for all devices and specific devices

> by the subtarget. Currently a subarch should be specified.

Reviewer: Nit: the "normative" parts should be written only from the perspective of things as they are now, and references to how things used to be should be in a visually distinct callout/note. For example:

```suggestion
Use the Clang option ``--target=<Architecture><SubArch>-<Vendor>-<OS>-<Environment>``
to specify the target triple.

.. note::
    Historically, the single top-level
    ``amdgcn`` architecture was used for all devices and specific devices
    by the subtarget. It has been replaced with the ``amdgpu`` architecture combined with a subarch suffix.
```

     Architecture Description
     ============ ==============================================================
     ``r600``     AMD GPUs HD2XXX-HD6XXX for graphics and compute shaders.
     ``amdgpu``   AMD GPUs GCN GFX6 onwards for graphics and compute shaders.
     ``amdgcn``   Legacy alias for ``amdgpu``.
     ============ ==============================================================

> 

Reviewer: Would it be reasonable to link to the `SubArch` table from here, so it is between arch and vendor?

.. _amdgpu-subarch-compatibility:

Subarchitecture Compatibility
-----------------------------

For the ``amdgpu`` architecture the ISA version is encoded in the
triple's *SubArch* component. Every unique ISA has its own *minor
subarch* (for example ``amdgpu9.00`` for ``gfx900``). ``amdgcn`` is a
legacy alias of ``amdgpu`` (see :ref:`amdgpu-architecture-table`)
which does not support subarches.

Minor subarches are grouped into *major subarches* that name a family
of largely compatible ISA versions (for example ``amdgpu9``). A major
subarch corresponds to a :ref:`generic processor
<amdgpu-generic-processor-table>` when one exists for that family; the
remaining major subarches are placeholders for families that do not
yet have a generic target for code generation.

Two subarches are considered *compatible* when:

* they are identical, or
* one of them is the major subarch of the family that the other belongs to.

In particular, two distinct *minor* subarches are never compatible
with each other, even within the same family (for example
``amdgpu9.00`` and ``amdgpu9.06`` are not compatible). A minor subarch
is only compatible with its own major subarch, and a major subarch is

> compatible with itself and every minor subarch it covers. A triple

Reviewer: This seems to imply that a minor subarch is not compatible with itself, when the previous paragraph states that it is. Maybe:

```suggestion
``amdgpu9.00`` and ``amdgpu9.06`` are not compatible). A minor subarch
is compatible with itself and its own major subarch, and a major subarch is
compatible with itself and every minor subarch it covers. A triple
```

with no subarch (``amdgpu``) is treated as compatible with anything,
as a backwards-compatibility allowance. When linking modules with
compatible-but-unequal subarches, the more specific (minor) subarch is
selected for the merged module.

The following table lists each major subarch and the minor subarches it covers.

> The *Default Generic Processor* column gives the generic processor that a major

Reviewer 2: in the `amdgpu-major-subarch-table` table below, you named the column "Default Processor" without "Generic". (Having the "Generic" might be more clear, ig)

Author: The problem with saying generic is we're still missing generic targets for some of these

Reviewer: I think the point is just that the wording above is talking about "the column" by name, but the name differs in the actual table. I think we just have to pick one, and there is already explication about the "placeholder" issue

     :header-rows: 1

     * - Major SubArch
       - Default Processor
       - Covered SubArches (Processor)
     * - ``amdgpu6``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu6.00`` (``gfx600``), ``amdgpu6.01`` (``gfx601``),
         ``amdgpu6.02`` (``gfx602``)
     * - ``amdgpu7``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu7.00`` (``gfx700``), ``amdgpu7.01`` (``gfx701``),
         ``amdgpu7.02`` (``gfx702``), ``amdgpu7.03`` (``gfx703``),
         ``amdgpu7.04`` (``gfx704``), ``amdgpu7.05`` (``gfx705``)
     * - ``amdgpu8``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu8.01`` (``gfx801``), ``amdgpu8.02`` (``gfx802``),
         ``amdgpu8.03`` (``gfx803``), ``amdgpu8.05`` (``gfx805``)
     * - ``amdgpu8.10``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu8.10`` (``gfx810``)
     * - ``amdgpu9``
       - ``gfx9-generic``
       - ``amdgpu9.00`` (``gfx900``), ``amdgpu9.02`` (``gfx902``),
         ``amdgpu9.04`` (``gfx904``), ``amdgpu9.06`` (``gfx906``),
         ``amdgpu9.09`` (``gfx909``), ``amdgpu9.0c`` (``gfx90c``)
     * - ``amdgpu9.08``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu9.08`` (``gfx908``)
     * - ``amdgpu9.0a``
       - *(none)*
       - ``amdgpu9.0a`` (``gfx90a``)
     * - ``amdgpu9.4``
       - ``gfx9-4-generic``

>        - ``amdgpu9.42`` (``gfx942``), ``amdgpu9.50`` (``gfx950``)

Reviewer 2: why is amdgpu9.50/gfx950 part of amdgpu9.4/gfx9-4-generic?

Reviewer 3: That is by design.

Author: If it wasn't there would be no 9.4. 9.4 only covers 942 and 950
